# PatientCareDatabaseManagementSystem

The prospective Patient Care Management System (PCMS) is a database system that has been designed for upcoming organization to help their customers with searching and scheduling of doctor appointments, treat health related issues, track doctor’s availability, querying and reporting what dosages of medications were administered to patients, by whom etc. The system will also allow the customer to search for the availability of medicines at the nearest medical store. Thus, making personal health care convenient to customers.

Over the past decade, virtually every major industry has invested heavily in computerization. Relative to a decade ago, today more Americans buy airline tickets and check in to flights online, purchase goods on the Web, and even earn degrees online in such disciplines as nursing, law and business among others. Yet, despite these advances in our society, the majority of patients are given handwritten medication prescriptions, and very few patients are able to email their physician or even schedule an appointment to see a provider without speaking to a live receptionist. Such systems have the potential to transform the health care system from a mostly paper-based industry to one that utilizes clinical and other pieces of information to assist providers in delivering higher quality of care to their patients.

Today, when customers need to schedule appointments, they have to search for availability at each hospital. Getting an appointment at a hospital is a very tedious task especially when the appointments are full. During such a situation, the customer has to call up each hospital one by one, or visit hospitals individually. Also, a similar situation arises when a customer needs medication, and he needs to search for the availability of the medicine. Thus, in such situations the proposed database management systems will be very beneficial to customers.
